The k-Armed Bandit problem
we looked at previously,
introduces many
interesting questions.
However, it doesn't include
many aspects of
real-world problems.
The agent is presented with
the same situation and
each time and the same
action is always optimal.
In many problems,
different situations call
for different responses.
The actions we choose now affect
the amount of reward we
can get into the future.
The Markov Decision
Process formalism
captures these two aspects
of real-world problems.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to understand
Markov decision processes or
MDPs and describe how
the dynamics of MDP are defined.
Let's start with
a simple example to
highlight how bandits
and MDPs differ.
Imagine a rabbit is
wandering around in
a field looking for food and
finds itself in
a situation where there is
a carry to its right and
broccoli on its left,
a rabbit prefers carrots.
So eating the carrot generates
a reward of plus 10.
Eating the broccoli
on the other hand
generates reward of
only plus three.
But what if later the rabbit
finds itself in
another situation,
where there's broccoli on
the right and carrot on the left.
Here, the rabbit would clearly
prefer to go left
instead of right.
The k-Armed Bandit problem
does not account for the fact
that different situations
call for different actions.
It's also limited in another way.
Let's say we do account for
different actions in
different situations.
Here it looks like
the rabbit would like
to go right to get the carrot.
However, going right will also
impact the next situation
the rabbit sees.
Let's say just to the right of
the carrot there is a tiger.
If the rabbit moves right,
it gets to eat the carrot.
But afterwards it may not
be fast enough to
escape the tiger.
If we account for the long-term
impact of our actions,
the rabbit should go
left and settle for
broccoli to give itself
a better chance to escape.
A bandit rabbit would
only be concerned about
immediate reward and so it
would go for the carrot.
But a better decision
can be made by
considering the long-term impact
of our decisions.
Now, let's look at
how the situation
changes as the rabbit
takes actions.
We will call these
situations states.
In each state the rabbits
selects an action.
For instance, the rabbit
can choose to move right.
Based on this action
the world changes
into a new state and
produces a reward.
In this case, the rabbit eats
the carrot and receives
a reward of plus 10.
However, the rabbit is
now next to the tiger.
Let's say the rabbit
chooses the left action.
The world changes into a new
state or the tiger eats
the rabbit and the rabbit
receives a reward of minus 100.
From the original
state the rabbit could
alternatively choose
to move left.
Then the world transitions into
a new state and the rabbit
receives a reward of plus three.
The diagram now shows two
potential sequences of states.
The sequence that
happens depends on
the actions that
the rabbit takes.
We can formalize this interaction
with the general framework.
In this framework, the agent and
environment interact at
discrete time steps.
At each time, the agent
receives a state
St from the environment from
a set of possible states,
script S. The configuration
shown on the slide is
an example of a state.
Based on this state
the agent selects an action
At from a set of
possible actions.
Script A of St is the set
of valid actions in
state St. Moving right is
an example of an action.
One time step later based in
part on the agent's action,
the agent finds itself in
a new state St plus one.
For example, this state
where the rabbit is
next to the tiger.
The environment also
provides a scalar reward
Rt plus one drawn from
a set of possible rewards,
script R. In this case,
the reward is plus 10
for eating the carrot.
This diagram summarizes the
agent environment interaction
in the MDP framework.
The agent environment interaction
generates a trajectory of
experience consisting of
states, actions, and rewards.
Actions influence
immediate rewards as well as
future states and through
those, future rewards.
So how can we represent the
dynamics of this interaction?
As in bandits, the outcomes are
stochastic and so we use
the language of probabilities.
When the agent takes
an action in a state,
there are many possible
next states and rewards.
The transition dynamics function
P, formalizes this notion.
Given a state S and action a,
p tells us the joint
probability of
next state S prime
and reward are.
In this course, we will typically
assume that the set of states,
actions, and rewards are finite.
But don't worry, you will
learn about algorithms that
can handle infinite sets
and uncountable sets.
Since p is a probability
distribution,
it must be non-negative
and it's sum over
all possible next states
and rewards must equal one.
Note that future state and reward
only depends on
the current state and action.
This is called the
Markov property.
It means that the present state
is sufficient and
remembering earlier
states would not
improve predictions
about the future.
That's it for this video.
In summary, MDPs provide
a general framework for
sequential decision
making and the dynamics of
an MDP are defined by
a probability distribution.
In the next video,
we will discuss
several decision-making tasks
and formalize each as an MDP.